---
title : "Awe[ful] @ Science !!?!??!"
date : "2006-12-21T00:00:00+05:30"
tags : ["blab", "kids", "life", "ology", "science"]
draft : false
---

I was at the B.M Birla Science Musuem yesterday... it was calm
with no one in there.. the only people i could see were the
sweepers and cleaners.. the place was dull and lifeless... I dint
like it.. but slowly.. as the afternoon progressed.. people
started coming in and by 5 in the evening.. there were quite a few
in. The museum seemed to have sprung to life suddenly... there was
a lot of action all around with people enjoying in ( and trying to
understand) the wonderful world of science....

A lot of kids had come along with their parents... to dive into
the world of science... they were enjoying it... the parents also
turned into kids and were having great fun... it was a great
sight... the parents tried their best to demistify the
happenings... those with a science background did it from thier
knowledge.. the others patiently went through the explanations...

The kids were thoroughly enjoying it... I don't know if they would
later on in life remember what they learnt now... but definitely a
love for science and physics will be ignited in their hearts, it
will fill their consciousness... the spirit of curiosity will have
multiplied manifold... even the elders..connected with the child
somewhere deep within themselves... they too enjoyed the wonders
of the world of science...[and ofcourse the company and thrill in
the eyes of their kids..] I too enjoyed the experience... the
experiments and the thrill of the others brought a smile to my
face too.... but it set me thinking...

If science can inspire so much awe.. what's happening at our
engineering colleges? When people have the chance to learn a whole
lot of science and put it to practical use... why isn't it that
they are excited about it? Why is it that people just endup
mugging a few formulae just before exams and get over with it?
Where's the problem? Where is that curiosity, all of us had as a
child, lost?

I can recollect, in the last sem while doing experiments in the MT
lab there wasn't even a tenth of the awe or joy... that i could
see and feel at the museum... why?? Is it that the child within
us.. [the future engineers] dead? { If that's true.. then the
country is in deep trouble..} But I don't think that's true... I
enjoyed my visit to the museum totally...and I am sure every other
'to be engineer' would have too.. then where's the trouble?

I don't know exactly... but I wonder if its because everything is
equated to marks and grades... all that matters to an engineering
student [and the world around him/her..] is his/her CG or
%age... Is this what the country needs? Were the 'temples of
Learning'- the IIT's and a whole lot of other technical
institutions set-up for this very pupose? Of what use are those
engineers to the country, who aren't in awe of science and
engineering, whose spirit of curiosity has been overpowered and
suppressed by the present education system?

Isn't it time we have a closer look at our education system... why
are we still sticking to the 'British sytem' introduced during a
colonial rule.. to break the back bone of our nation... to supress
our ability to think rationally.. to produce third rate clerks to
work for them at lower wages? Why is the emphasis on marks and
grades growing exponentially? Shouldn't we start working to cut
this growth at its root? Is this sytem good enough to produce
"real" engineers, doctors, lawyers, journos, CA's, architects,
designers, writers, artists etc etc..

Where have all the gurukuls of the ancient past and the
Santiniketans of the recent past gone? Isn't the country in
desparate need of more of these 'temples of learning'??

_The highest education is that which does not merely give us
information but makes our life in harmony with all existence._ --
Rabindranath Tagore

_Science is a wonderful thing if one does not have to earn one's
living at it_ --Albert Einstein
