+++
title = "Blogs, Feeds and Readers"
date = "2010-04-20T00:00:00+05:30"
tags = ["blab"]
draft = false
+++

I want to be a part of the "reader-space" of blogs or web-sites
rather than a part of the Google-reader ecosystem.

As most of my readers know, I'm big on Google Reader (and I have a
reputation for that!). I'm a part of a wonderful ecosystem and get
to look-at or read a lot of interesting stuff. I get a lot of
variety, stuff that I wouldn't normally have come across. It keeps
me from staying in a tiny well, reading the same kind of stuff,
over and over again. I also like the fact that it acts as an
archival system for me. I can go back and read posts, which don't
exist on the web, anymore.

But, I have a problem with this ecosystem. It's killing the the
communities around the blogs or sites, themselves. The reader
count may have gone up, but the discussion and activity of the
community on the blogs is going down; at least on the blogs I look
at. Blogs are rather dead, these days. But, when one's following
over 200 blogs, you can't expect much better. It is difficult to
keep up with all of them; even the ones that one kept up well
with, before. People stop going back to the comments; stop
participating in the discussion.

Do you agree? Do you think it'll help it feed readers keep track
of the comments and updates? Or is the only way to cut down on
feed-reading and getting back to the old exciting way of checking
out blogs? I recall an old quote I read - If it's not worth
remembering, it's not worth reading.

**UPDATE:** I wasn't talking of my blog or comments here, in
 particular (if that's not already clear). I was talking of blogs,
 that I read regularly, blogs of people I know well (including
 mine). But then, there are blogs, that have over 1000 comments on
 a single post, too. Should the above quote could be changed to
 read - "If it's not worth reading, it's not worth remembering." ?
